as fighting continues near hospitals in
the Gaza Strip US President Joe Biden
has warned that the biggest gazen
Hospital must be protected he's called
on Israel to take less intrusive action
at alifa Israel alleges Hamas militants
are using medical centers as command
bases Witnesses say Israeli tanks have
surrounded alifa where doctors say
they've been without water or
electricity for
days filmed just a few days ago this
video apparently shot inside gaza's
alifa Hospital gives a sense of just how
many people have been crowded inside the
World Health Organization says this is
no longer a functioning hospital it says
there's no more fuel for generators
vital life-saving equipment is no longer
working and according to medical staff
at the facility dozens of newborns have
now been removed from incubators and
place together on beds in the
open so they are literally in a very bad
situation where you slowly kill them
unless someone interferes to adjust or
to improve their situation but these are
very critical kind of cases where you
have to be uh very sensitive in dealing
with them you have to take care of each
of them in a very special way but
currently they are all in open space
they are with each others with no
infection control
measures
Israel's ground offensive has been
moving ever closer to the gates of alifa
Hospital in recent days with the US
president joining the growing
international calls for restraint well
uh you know I have not been reluctant in
expressing my concerns what's going on
um and is my hope and expectation that
uh there will be
uh
less intrusive action relative to the
hospital the hospital must be protected
Israel's military has accused Hamas of
using hospitals to hide command centers
and weapons and it's now released
footage of what it says is a children's
hospital in Gaza the tunnel is Led down
more than 20 M down the robot found a
door a door that is bulletproof it's a
it's explosives proof alleging Hamas had
held hostages in rooms beneath the
hospital we now we are now in the area
of the basement of the
hospital along with a cash of weapons
and explosives inside the hospital I
want you to
understand this kind of
gear is a gear for a major fight these
are
explosives these are vest vest with
explosives yeah it's a body vest for
terrorists to explode on forces among
hospitals among
patients
hospitals are given special protection
during times of War but Israel argues
that Hammer's use of medical facilities
as cover overrides any legal safeguards
as it intensifies its ground offensive
inside the Gaza
Strip I'm joined Now by Andreas Creek
from the school of security studies at
Kings College London what's your
assessment of this video released by the
Israeli military's Chief in which he
tries to show how m is using hospitals
as an instrument of
War well I mean it's it's a known fact
that Hamas is hiding among the civilian
population and has also used um you know
dual use infrastructure which is
civilian infrastructure for their
operations but we also need to be very
very careful about Israel's use of
information we're in a war over
narratives uh the IDF has made repeated
and has released repeated uh pieces of
Miss and disinformation if we look at
that that video in particular we have to
exercise a lot of scrutiny Israel is a
party to this conflict they have a
motivation to take a particular stance
in this to make themselves look better
than they actually are they
unfortunately in this war have shown
that veracity is not necessarily one of
their main ways of doing it if of
presenting information if you look at
the shaft in particular we don't know if
that's a shaft that goes to a tunnel we
don't know if that's a maintenance shaft
some of the releases of videos last week
that were released by the IDF in
afterwards were shown to be actually
just M shafts that were actually not
tunnels that were going into anywhere
into Hamas infrastructure so we don't
know that then the video is doed so in a
lot of occasions we've seen cut Cuts
made so we don't know where this tunnel
is leading apparently we are then
underneath we're shown under in a in
into a basement that's underneath the
hospital we don't really know where this
is um also the evidence that's being
presented here is very very dubious is
certainly not conclusive we're seeing
diapers and we're seeing bottles that's
quite clear that people Civ were staying
there but that's true because civilians
were hiding in hospitals and had to hide
in hospitals for the last couple of
weeks during the bombardment so that's
no evidence for anything then we've seen
a r or a calendar on the wall in Arabic
where all we see is n is is is basically
the days of the week in Arabic and
that's being presented as evidence that
this is Hideout for Hamas again not not
is makes it very very uh uh dubious and
in many ways undermines The credibility
of what the IDF is trying to present
here and this very important that we
that we keep a clear eye out we've seen
videos being doctored by the ADF we've
seen these kind of staged uh uh
conversations that allegedly were
supposed to show Hamas Fighters um that
were intercepted it turned out they were
scripted so we have to be very careful
in the way that we're looking at that
evidence so to speak and and obviously
yes we're seeing that some of the arms
were were basically put there we don't
know if the arms were actually found
there or if they were dumped there so
the the video in itself has to be uh you
kind of dealt with it s s it has to be
you know scrutinized in the same way
that we would scrutinize Russian
information or or Hamas information uh
scrutinize this next one for me then the
Israeli military's also released a video
taken from the air in which it says a
hamus fighter is using a rocket launcher
outside Al's
Hospital yes I've seen that video as
well I think that that is you know being
geolocated I think that it seems to be
um uh the right location at the right
time um and it's you know an active war
zone I don't think it's it's surprising
that Hamas in an active war zone is
operating all over uh the the the
territory and all over the
infrastructure this is obviously a war
crime Hamas is hiding as I said
initially are hiding among the civilian
population but that's still doesn't mean
that Israel has been absolved of its um
uh kind of uh you know its duty to
differentiate between civilians and um
and and Fighters here so you can't just
bomb a hospital just because you're
being shot at from that hospital
unfortunately that's not how
international law works and we also
should bear in mind that these so-called
human Shields are passive human Shields
there's a difference between active and
passive human Shields passive human
Shields are those people who are not
known that they are human Shields
they're being abused by Hamas as human
Shields and that means that the attacker
in this case the IDF has to really
exercise a lot of caution when they're
going in there and I think that's what
the US president means it means don't
use area effect weapons don't use
artillery don't use air uh air dropped
ordinance against these targets but move
in with infantry and even that will be
messy because obviously Hamas is
operating from among the civilian
population lastly Andreas can you also
just tell me is it accepted consensus in
the intelligence community that hamus
does high command facilities under
civilan
infrastructure now you need to
understand that the entire Gaza Strip
not just Gaza City but the entire Gaza
Strip is a an is an infrastructure of
hundreds of kilometers of tunnels and
bunkers and command centers all over
what is essentially a fairly densely
populated area and some of these command
structures will be you know inevitably
under civilian infrastructure some of
them will be underneath or near
hospitals so that video that was
released by the IDF yesterday suggests
though that that bunker was some 100
meters away or 200 met away from the
hospital um so it's difficult to say
that they're actually hiding it
underneath the hospital but certainly
Clos to a hospital and and that that's
deliberate Hamas doesn't you know that's
kind of what an Insurgency force would
do to kind of hide themselves among
civilians to make sure they can't be
struck um so you know it still doesn't
absolve Israel from the duty to to basic
differentiate between civilians and
combatants and make sure that collateral
damage is absolutely minimized and the
IDF has unfortunately not done this
because they've always relied on the one
argument of saying Hamas is hiding among
the civilians and the burden of uh of of
protecting civilians is then being
shifted to Hamas which is not true the
burden of protecting civilians is both
on Hamas and the
IDF Andreas Creek security analyst thank
you very much for chiming in on DW
news thank
you well Alona sinenko works with the
international Committee of the Red Cross
she told me more about the situation in
hospitals in southern
Gaza even in the south of Gaza in the
hospital where our surgical team is
working now uh the situation is ex
extremely difficult uh they stay away
for several hours every night unable to
sleep because of the explosions that
take place uh nearby um they are also
running short on the essential supplies
like anesthetics like dressing material
as they receive uh people with
horrendous wounds a lot of burn patients
and unfortunately many of them are
children with tens of thousands of
people continuing to flee from the north
to the South are you equipped uh to help
all of these
people this is extremely dire situation
and today the amount of the humanitarian
assistance that we are managing to bring
into Gaza is simply not sufficient to
face the massive crisis uh that is
unfolding we now have uh more than
100,000 displaced people in extremely
crowded conditions in the south of Gaza
and many of them are also in the hosital
hospital where they think they are safer
than everywhere else and uh these people
have nothing there's a lack of food lack
of water so uh the short answer is no we
are not equipped we need more
humanitarian assistance how many trucks
of Aid are you managing to get through
the Gaza uh into the Gaza Strip at the
moment we have managed uh in the past
month to bring uh over or something like
25 trucks of uh humanitarian assistance
and this is far from being sufficient
because if you
come uh situation before this current
escalation there were roughly 500 trucks
per day uh reaching the strip so what
we're bringing is uh extremely small
compared to the level of needs so just
25 trucks in over a month now um Israel
claims that Hama is using Gaza hospitals
to hide their command centers we were
just showing some footage from uh the
Defense Forces before have your
colleagues on the ground seen anything
that would prove these
claims we are a humanitarian actor we're
not an intelligence organization to be
able to prove or this uh or right or
wrong any claims made by any party in
this conflict what we are seeing is is
the uh in deep humanitarian crisis
unfolding and uh our job is to advocate
for the respect of the international
humanitarian law and also to remind all
the parties that uh we must not forget
the humanitarian imperative that there
are women children the elderly and that
civilians in the north of Gaza and in
the Gaza City they are protected by the
international humanitarian law I Ino
with the international Committee of the
Red Cross thank you very much for your
time thank
you